Instead, the oscillations must be of constant amplitude and continuous.
A later improvement for setting up sustained oscillations was the authors rotating oscillation arc.
A few years ahead of these amateurs, that is to say in 1905, J.
Then its use became general and workers everywhere sought to, and did improve it.
And so they, too, became enthusiastic wireless amateurs.
This is the wireless, or radio, as the average amateur knows it today.
But it is by no means the limit of its possibilities.
On the contrary, we are just beginning to realize what it may mean to the human race.
The Government is now utilizing it to send out weather, crop and market reports.
Foreign trade conditions are being reported.
The Naval Observatory at Arlington is wirelessing time signals.
Department stores are beginning to issue programs and advertise by radio.
Cities are also taking up such programs, and they will doubtless be included soon among the regular privileges of the tax payers.
Politicians address their constituents.
Preachers reach the stay at homes.
Great singers thrill thousands instead of hundreds.
Soon it will be possible to hear the finest musical programs, entertainers, and orators, without budging from ones easy chair.
In the World War wireless proved of inestimable value.
Airplanes, instead of flying aimlessly, kept in constant touch with headquarters.
Bodies of troops moved alertly and intelligently.
Ships at sea talked freely, over hundreds of miles.
Everywhere its invisible aid was invoked.
In time of peace, however, it has proved and will prove the greatest servant of mankind.
Wireless messages now go daily from continent to continent, and soon will go around the world with the same facility.
Ships in distress at sea can summon aid.
Vessels everywhere get the days news, even to baseball scores.
Daily new tasks are being assigned this tireless, wireless messenger.
Messages have been sent and received by moving trains, the Lackawanna and the Rock Island railroads being pioneers in this field.
Messages have also been received by automobiles, and one inventor has successfully demonstrated a motor car controlled entirely by wireless.
This method of communication is being employed more and more by newspapers.
It is also of great service in reporting forest fires.
One receiver depicted in a newspaper was one inch square.
Daily new novelties and marvels are announced.
Meanwhile, the radio amateur to whom this book is addressed may have his share in the joys of wireless.
And how, you may ask, are you going to be able to know the good from the indifferent and bad sets?
By buying a make of a firm with an established reputation.
I have given a few offhand at the end of this book.
In other words, the same difference exists between them in this respect as between the Morse telegraph and the Bell telephone.
The aerial wire is precisely the same for either wireless telegraphy or wireless telephony.
The easiest way to begin wireless, then, is to put up an aerial and hook up a receiving set to it.
A crystal detector can be used with or without a battery while the vacuum tube detector requires two small batteries.
Where a single coil tuner is used a fixed condenser should be connected around the telephone receivers.
The telephone receiver of a receiving set is equally as important as the detector.
A single receiver can be used but a pair of receivers connected with a head band gives far better results.
In its simplest form this consists of a metal cone like a megaphone to which is fitted a telephone receiver.
Second.New York City Third.Baltimore, Md.
Amateurs generally use a jump spark for sending wireless telegraph messages and the vacuum tube for sending wireless telephone messages.
A simple transmitting set with an induction coil is shown in Fig 2.
The quenched gap is more efficient than either the plain or rotary gap and moreover it is noiseless.
The glass plate condensers are the cheapest and will serve your purpose well, especially if they are immersed in oil.
Tuning coils, sometimes called transmitting inductances and oscillation transformers, are of various types.
An oscillation transformer instead of a tuning coil, is required by government regulations unless inductively coupled.
This kind of a transmitter sets up sustained oscillations instead of periodic oscillations which are produced by a spark gap set.
The advantages of this kind of a system will be found explained in Chapter XVI.
An electric arc or a vacuum tube sets up sustained oscillations, that is, oscillations which are continuous.
The apparatus required and the connections used for wireless telephone sets will be described in later chapters.
For example, the first table gives abbreviations of electrical terms which are in general use in all works dealing with the subject.
In the country you can stretch your wires between the house and barn or the windmill.
A Single Wire Aerial. This is the simplest and cheapest kind of a receiving aerial that can be put up.
You can use any size of copper or aluminum wire that is not smaller than No 16 Brown and Sharpe gauge.
Run a wire from the top post through the leading in insulator and connect it with the slider of your tuning coil.
Twist the short wire around the long wire and solder this joint also when the aerial will look like Fig 7.
This makes a good sending aerial for small sets as well as a good receiving aerial.
They should be 2 1/4 inches in diameter at the middle and 1 3/4 inches at the ends.
The middle spreader can be cylindrical and 2 inches in diameter.
The leading in spreader is also made of spruce and is 1 1/2 inches square and 26 inches long.
In using a counterpoise you must bring the wire from it up to and through another leading in insulator to your instruments.
With a crystal detector receiving set you can receive either telegraphic dots and dashes or telephonic speech and music.
You can buy a receiving set already assembled or you can buy the different parts and assemble them yourself.
It costs 15.00, and can be bought of dealers in electric supplies generally.
It will receive wireless telegraph and telephone messages over a range of from 10 to 25 miles.
This set includes a crystal detector, a variable tuning coil, a fixed condenser and a pair of head telephone receivers.
It can also be used to receive either telegraph or telephone messages from distances up to 25 miles.
The aerial equipment is not included in this price, but it can be bought for about 2.50 extra.
For either set you can use a pair of 2,000 or 3,000 ohm head phones.
The Crystal Detector. A crystal detector consists of 1 the frame, 2 the crystal, and 3 the wire point.
The Double Slide Tuning Coil. With this tuning coil you can receive waves from any station up to 1,000 meters in length.
The tuning coil is shown complete at B and it costs 3.00 or 4.00.
It costs about 6.00.
The secondary coil is wound on a cylinder that slides in and out of the primary coil.
The loose coupler, which is shown complete at B, costs in the neighborhood of 8.00 or 10.00.
The paper and tin foil are then pressed together and impregnated with an insulating compound.
These condensers cost 4.00 and 5.00 respectively.
A pair of head phones of this type is shown in Fig 14.
Mount the detector on the right hand side of a board and the tuning coil on the left hand side.
You are now ready to adjust the instruments.
To do this you need a buzzer, a switch and a dry cell.
Then vary the pressure of the point on the crystal until you hear the sparks as loud as possible.
After you have made the adjustment open the switch and disconnect the buzzer wire from the ground wire of your set.
You are now ready to tune the set with the tuning coil and listen in.
There are two general styles of spark coils used for wireless and these are shown at A and B in Fig 18.
The wiring diagram C shows how the spark coil is wired up.
The other battery binding post connects with the standard that supports the adjusting screw.
The Battery. This can be formed of dry cells or you can use a storage battery to energize your coil.
The way the dry cells are connected together to form a battery will be shown presently.
A dry cell is shown at A in Fig, 19.
A key of the latter kind is shown at B.
The Spark gap. It is in the spark gap that the high tension spark takes place.
The apparatus in which the spark takes place is also called the spark gap.
This is called a fixed, or stationary spark gap and costs about 1.00.
It is shown at d, and costs about 5.00.
These condensers are made up of thin brass plates insulated with a special compound and pressed into a compact form.
It is shown at e.
Connecting Up the Apparatus. Your sending set should be mounted on a table, or a bench, where it need not be moved.
For the low voltage circuit, that is the battery circuit, use No 12 or 14 insulated copper wire.
A wiring diagram of the connections is shown at B.
It has neither a vibrator nor a condenser.
A plain transformer is shown at A in Fig 21.
All of these transformers operate on 110 volt, 60 cycle current and can be connected directly to the source of alternating current.
The Wireless Key. For this transmitting set a standard wireless key should be used as shown at B.
A rotary gap with a 110 volt motor costs about 25.00.
A 1/4 kilowatt quenched gap costs 10.00.
The Oscillation Transformer. With an oscillation transformer you can tune much more sharply than with a single inductance coil tuner.
It is shown at D and costs 5.00.
Connecting Up the Apparatus.
This completes the closed oscillation circuit.
For Direct Current. Where you have 110 volt direct current you must connect in an electrolytic interrupter.
You can find out which is which by connecting in the interrupter and trying it, or you can use a polarity indicator.
An electrolytic interrupter can be bought for as little as 3.00.
How to Adjust Your Transmitter.
To tune to different wave lengths you must have a wave meter.
Both water and electricity may be at rest or in motion.
On closing the switch the opposite charges rush together and form a current which flows to and fro between the metal plates.
It is the battery or dynamo that sets up the electric pressure as the circuit itself is always charged with electricity.
A fresh dry cell will deliver a current of about 1.5 volts.
The resistance of a circuit is measured by a unit called the ohm, and it is expressed by the symbol R.
A No 10, Brown and Sharpe gauge soft copper wire, 1,000 feet long, has a resistance of about 1 ohm.
To measure the resistance of a circuit an apparatus called a resistance bridge is used.
The resistance of a circuit can, however, be easily calculated, as the following shows.
This relation between these three constants is known as Ohms Law and as they are very important you should memorize them.
To find the watts a current develops you need only to multiply the amperes by the volts.
There are 746 watts to 1 horsepower, and 1,000 watts are equal to 1 kilowatt.
To discharge the condenser automatically a spark, or an arc, or the flow of electrons in a vacuum tube, is employed.
Constants of an Oscillation Circuit. An oscillation circuit, as pointed out before, is one in which high frequency currents surge or oscillate.
What Capacitance Is. The word capacitance means the electrostatic capacity of a condenser or a circuit.
Inertia is that property of a material body that requires time and energy to set in motion, or stop.
Inductance is that property of an oscillation circuit that makes an electric current take time to start and time to stop.
Where high frequency currents surge in a circuit the inductance of it becomes a powerful factor.
The practical unit of inductance is the henry and it is represented by the symbol L.
The unit of resistance is, as stated, the ohm, and its symbol is R.
How Transmitting Set No 1 Works.
Under these conditions the ratio of transformation, as it is called, would be unity.
The Secondary Spark Coil Circuit. This includes the secondary coil and the spark gap which are connected together.
The closed oscillation circuit consists of 1 a spark gap, 2 a condenser and 3 an oscillation transformer.
How Transmitting Set No 2 Works.
The transformer needs no vibrator when used with alternating current.
This is very much the way in which a quenched spark gap sets up oscillations in a coupled closed and open circuit.
For this reason the radiated waves approach somewhat the condition of continuous waves, and so sharper tuning is possible.
For this reason a crystal detector is sometimes called a rectifier, which it really is.
The potential voltage of these oscillations are, however, stepped down in the secondary coil and, hence, their current strength amperes is increased.
The variable condenser shunted across the closed circuit permits finer secondary tuning to be done than is possible without it.
About Mechanical Tuning. A tuning fork is better than a spring or a straight steel bar for setting up mechanical vibrations.
This is called simple resonance.
Just as acoustic resonance may be simple or sympathetic so electric resonance may be simple or sympathetic.
Tuning the receptor circuits to the transmitter circuits are examples of sympathetic electric resonance.
There are two general types of loud speakers, though both use the principle of the telephone receiver.
The construction of these loud speakers will be fully described in a later chapter.
You can, however, buy all the various parts separately and mount them yourself.
The loose coupled tuning coil, the variable condenser and the telephone receivers are the same as those described in Chapter III.
The Vacuum Tube Detector.
The way the three electrode vacuum tube detector is connected with the batteries is shown at B.
In assembling a receiving set you must, of course, have a socket for the vacuum tube.
A vacuum tube detector costs from 5.00 to 6.00.
It is shown at A in Fig 39.
A dry cell battery for a plate circuit is shown at B.
The rheostat consists of an insulating and a heat resisting form on which is wound a number of turns of resistance wire.
It is shown at A and B in Fig 40 and costs 1.25.
Whatever you do be careful not to get the plate connections of the battery reversed.
By carefully adjusting the rheostat you can easily find the point at which it makes the tube the most sensitive.
The degree to which a vacuum tube has been exhausted has a very pronounced effect on its sensitivity.
The longer the tube is used the lower its vacuum gets and generally the less sensitive it becomes.
Moreover, a tube that is completely exhausted costs more than one that is filled with gas.
Where two or more amplifier tubes are coupled together in this way the scheme is known as cascade amplification.
A Grid Leak Amplifier Receiving Set.
The A and B batteries are exactly the same as those described in Chapter VIII.
The vacuum tube amplifier and the grid leak are the only new pieces of apparatus you need and not described before.
A radio frequency transformer is shown at B and costs 6 to 7.
It is like using steam over and over again in a steam turbine until there is no more energy left in it.
The Simplest Type of Regenerative Receiving Set.
Connect the or positive electrode of the A battery with one post of the.001 mfd.
An Efficient Regenerative Receiving Set.
The smallest size coils cost about 1.50 apiece and the mounting costs about 6 or 7 each.
It is, however, used as well as the rheostat.
As you will see from A in Fig 51 it has three taps.
Since the A battery gives 6 volts you can vary the potential of the plate from 18 to 24 volts.
The potentiometer must never be shunted around the B battery or the latter will soon run down.
A potentiometer costs a couple of dollars.
Now connect one end of the tickler coil with the detector plate and the other post to the fixed.001 mfd.
Finally, shunt the head phones and the.001 mfd.
To get the greatest amplification possible with amplifying tubes you have to keep a negative potential on the grids.
This scheme will give the grids a negative bias of about 1 volt.
A variable condenser of.001 mfd.
Now connect one end of the secondary coil to one post of a.001 mfd.
Then shunt the headphones around the condenser.
These tuning devices can be connected up in different ways and are very popular with amateurs at the present time.
A Short Wave Regenerative Receiver With One Variometer and Three Variable Condensers. This set also includes a variocoupler and a grid coil.
While this set can be used without shielding the parts from each other the best results are had when shields are used.
This is the part of the variocoupler that is called the stator.
A diagram of a variocoupler is shown at A in Fig 53, and the coupler itself at B.
To be really efficient a variometer must have a small resistance and a large inductance as well as a small dielectric loss.
A new type of variometer has what is known as a basket weave, or wavy wound stator and rotor.
A wiring diagram of a variometer is shown at A in Fig 54 and a basketball variometer is shown complete at B.
Now connect one end of the secondary coil, or rotor, to one post of a.0007 mfd.
Next connect one post of the.0007 mfd.
Finally shunt a.001 mfd.
Short Wave Regenerative Receiver.
When you connect up this receptor you must keep the various parts well separated.
Now connect one end of the secondary coil, or rotor, of the variocoupler with one post of the.0005 mfd.
To receive continuous wave telegraph signals requires receiving sets of special kind and these will be described in the next chapter.
Likewise connect the other loading coil in one side of the closed, or secondary circuit between the variable.0007 mfd.
The other connections are exactly the same as shown in Figs 44 and 45.
By winding inductance coils with two or more layers the highest inductance values can be obtained with the least resistance.
A wiring diagram of a multipoint inductance coil is shown in Fig 58.
You can buy this intermediate wave set assembled and ready to use or get the parts and connect them up yourself.
A long wave set for receiving these stations must be able to tune to wave lengths up to 20,000 meters.
The variable condenser used in series with the aerial wire system has 26 plates and is equal to a capacitance of.0008 mfd.
The condenser used in the secondary coil circuit has 14 plates and this is equal to a capacitance of.0004 mfd.
The inductance coils of the aerial wire system and those of the secondary coil circuit are practically alike.
The connections for a long wave receptor are shown in the wiring diagram in Fig 59.
The heterodyne method will be described in this chapter.
This, then, is the principle of the heterodyne, or beat, receptor.
A fuller explanation of how this is done will be found in Chapter XV.
The connections for the autodyne, or self heterodyne, receiving set are shown in Fig 60.
The connections are shown in Fig 61.
In using either of these heterodyne receivers be sure to carefully adjust the B battery by means of the potentiometer.
The ends of this magnet, which are called poles, are bent up, and hence this type is called a bipolar receiver.
A high grade headset is shown in Fig 64.
Each phone of a headset should be wound to the same resistance, and these are connected in series as shown.
This added magnetic energy makes the magnet attract the diaphragm more than it would do by its own force.
When varying currents flow through the coils the diaphragm vibrates accordingly and sends out sound waves.
About Loud Speakers. The simplest acoustic instrument ever invented is the megaphone, which latter is a Greek word meaning great sound.
It is a very primitive device and our Indians made it out of birch bark before Columbus discovered America.
Amplifying tubes are made to stand a plate potential of 100 volts and this is the kind you must use.
The construction is rigid enough to prevent overtones, or distortion of speech or music.
It is shown in Fig 65.
Here it is reflected by a parabolic mirror which greatly amplifies the sounds.
The amplification takes place without distortion, the sounds remaining as clear and crisp as when projected by the transmitting station.
It is pictured in Fig 67.
A Super Loud Speaker. This loud speaker, which is known as the Magnavox Telemegafone, was the instrument used by Lt.
This wonderful achievement was accomplished through the installation of the Magnavox and amplifiers in front of the Treasury Building.
It does, however, transform the variable electric currents of the wireless receiving set into sound vibrations in a most wonderful manner.
The Telemegafone is shown complete at B.
To understand how a vacuum tube acts as a detector and as an amplifier you must first know what electrons are.
There are several ways that this can be done but in any event each atom must be given a good, hard blow.
This can be done by giving the latter piece of metal a positive charge.
Fleming, of Oxford University, London.
This latter relay action will be explained when we come to its operation as an amplifier.
This is the reason the vacuum tube amplifies as well as detects.
Since the electrons do not reach the plate the current from the B battery cannot flow between it and the filament.
This then is the principle on which the amplifying tube works.
From this you will see that any regenerative set can be used for autodyne, or self heterodyne, reception.
The Separate Heterodyne Receiving Set. The better way, however, is to use a separate vacuum tube for setting up the heterodyne oscillations.
The way in which the tube acts as a generator of oscillations will be told in Chapter XVIII.
Or in a pinch you can use five standard B batteries to develop the plate voltage, but these will soon run down.
The Tuning Coil. You can either make this tuning coil or buy one.
You can buy a coil of this kind for 4.00 or 5.00.
The Condensers. For the aerial series condenser get one that has a capacitance of.002 mfd.
It is shown at C.
In these condensers the leaves of the sheet metal are embedded in composition.
The aerial condenser will cost you 2.00 and the others 75 cents each.
For this small transmitter you can use an ordinary buzzer as shown at F.
A dry cell or two must be used to energize the buzzer.
You can get one for about 75 cents.
The key shown at G is mounted on a composition base and is the cheapest key made, costing 1.50.
The current required for heating the filament is about 1 ampere at 6 volts.
A porcelain socket should be used for this tube as it is the best insulating material for the purpose.
An amplifier tube of this type is shown at H and costs 6.50.
The cheapest 6 volt storage battery on the market has a 20 to 40 ampere hour capacity and sells for 13.00.
The Battery Rheostat. As with the receptors a rheostat is needed to regulate the current that heats the filament.
A rheostat of this kind is shown at I and is listed at 1.25.
A piece of it is pictured at J.
The Panel Cut Out. This is used to connect the cord of the 110 volt lamp socket with the transmitter.
In some localities it is necessary to place these in an iron box to conform to the requirements of the fire underwriters.
Connecting Up the Transmitting Apparatus. The way the various pieces of apparatus are connected together is shown in the wiring diagram.
Now connect the end of the tuning coil that leads to the ammeter with one end of the.001 mfd.
Connect the telegraph key, the buzzer and the dry cell in series and then shunt them around the grid condenser.
Next connect the plate of the tube with one end of the.001 mfd.
Telegraph Transmitter. Here is a continuous wave telegraph transmitter that will cover distances up to 100 miles that you can rely on.
It is fitted with one fixed tap and three clips to each of which a length of copper braid is attached.
A condenser of this kind costs 5.40.
The Grid and Blocking Condensers. Each of these is a fixed condenser of.002 mfd.
It is made like the aerial condenser but has only two terminals.
The Key Circuit Apparatus. This consists of 1 the grid leak 2 the chopper 3 the choke coil, and 4 the key.
It has a resistance of 5000 ohms with a mid tap at 2500 ohms as shown at C.
The chopper is simply a rotary interrupter driven by a small motor.
A metal contact called a brush is fixed on either side of the wheel.
It costs about 7.00 and the motor to drive it is extra.
The filament takes a current of a little more than 2 amperes at 7.5 volts.
A standard 4 tap base is used with it.
The tube costs 8.00 and the porcelain base is 1.00 extra.
The Storage Battery and Rheostat. This must be a 5 cell battery so that it will develop 10 volts.
A storage battery of any capacity can be used but the lowest priced one costs about 22.00.
The rheostat for regulating the battery current is the same as that used in the preceding experimental transmitter.
For this transmitter a direct current voltmeter reading from 0 to 15 volts is used.
It is shown at F and costs 7.50.
The Oscillation Choke Coil. This is made exactly like the one described in connection with the experimental transmitter.
Get a 100 watt 350 volt motor generator it is shown at F and costs about 75.00.
The Panel Cut Out. This switch and fuse block is the same as that used in the experimental set.
The Protective Condenser. This is a fixed condenser having a capacitance of 1 mfd.
Where two or more oscillator tubes are used only one storage battery is needed, but each filament must have its own rheostat.
The wiring diagram Fig 79 shows how the two tubes are connected up in parallel.
Much of the apparatus for a 50 watt tube set is exactly the same as that used for the 5 watt sets.
Some of the parts, however, must be proportionately larger though the design all the way through remains the same.
The 50 Watt Vacuum Tube Oscillator. This is the size of tube generally used by amateurs for long distance continuous wave telegraphy.
A single tube will develop 2 to 3 amperes in your aerial.
The filament takes a 10 volt current and a plate potential of 1,000 volts is needed.
One of these tubes is shown in Fig 80 and the cost is 30.00.
A tube socket to fit it costs 2.50 extra.
The Aerial Ammeter. This should read to 5 amperes and the cost is 6.25.
It is listed at 1.65.
The Oscillation Choke Coil. The choke coil in the power circuit is made of about 260 turns of No 30 B.
The Filament Rheostat. This is made to take care of a 10 volt current and it costs 10.00.
The Filament Storage Battery. This must develop 12 volts and one having an output of 40 ampere hours costs about 25.00.
The Protective Condenser. This condenser has a capacitance of 1 mfd.
This machine will stand you about 100.00.
It looks like the aerial ammeter and costs about 7.50.
Power Transformer. Differing from the motor generator set the power transformer has no moving parts.
For this transmitting set you need a transformer that has an input of 325 volts.
This adjustment for voltage is made by means of taps brought out from the primary coil to a rotary switch.
The low voltage secondary coil which heats the filament has an output of 175 watts and develops 7.5 volts.
It weighs about 15 pounds and sells for 25.00.
Connecting Up the Apparatus. The wiring diagram Fig 82 shows clearly how all of the connections are made.
The apparatus needed is identical with that used for the 100 mile transmitter just described.
The tubes are connected in parallel as shown in the wiring diagram in Fig 83.
The Apparatus Required. All of the apparatus for this C.
The low voltage secondary coil which heats the filament develops 10.5 volts.
This transformer will supply current for one or two 50 watt oscillator tubes and it costs about 40.00.
In time past the most difficult of all electrical apparatus for the amateur to make, install and work was the wireless telephone.
The energy of these sustained modulated oscillations is then radiated into space from the aerial in the form of electric waves.
Finally, where four or five oscillator tubes are connected in parallel proportionately greater distances can be covered.
Telegraph Transmitter, except that you use a microphone transmitter instead of a telegraph key.
This is known as a solid back transmitter and is the standard commercial type used on all long distance Bell telephone lines.
It is shown in Fig 84 and costs 2.00.
Any other good microphone transmitter can be used if desired.
Connect the protective condenser across the direct current feed wires between the panel cut out and the choke coil.
To make this transmitter you will need exactly the same apparatus as that described and pictured for the 100 Mile C.
All of these parts have been described, as said above, in Chapter XVI, except the microphone modulators.
It consists of a primary coil of No 20 B.
This device is used to control the variations of the oscillating currents that are set up by the oscillator tube.
It costs about 10.00.
Now there are three different ways that the microphone and its modulator can be connected in circuit.
Two of the best ways are shown at A and B in Fig 89.
The Oscillation Choke Coil. You can make this choke coil by winding about 275 turns of No 28 B.
Give it a good coat of shellac varnish and let it dry thoroughly.
Likewise the grid circuit reactor is used to keep the voltage of the grid at a constant value.
Connecting up the Apparatus. All of the different pieces of apparatus are connected up as shown in Fig 89.
All of these parts, except the latter, are described in detail under the heading of a 500 Mile C.
Telegraph Transmitting Set in Chapter XVI, and are also pictured in that chapter.
The magnetic modulator is described and pictured in this chapter.
All of the above pieces of apparatus are the same as those described for the 100 Mile C.
The filament terminal takes a current of 7.5 volts and this is supplied by another secondary coil of the transformer.
This rectifier tube delivers a direct current of 20 watts at 350 volts.
It looks exactly like the 5 watt oscillator tube which is pictured at E in Fig 77.
The price is 7.50.
They have a capacitance of 1 mfd.
These condensers cost about 2.00 each.
This size of reactor costs 11.50.
The apparatus is wired up as shown in Fig 93.
The three foregoing chapters explained in detail the design and construction of 1 two kinds of C.
The Operation of C.
Telegraph Transmitters With Direct Current Short Distance C.
When oscillations are set up in it the grid is alternately charged to the positive and negative signs.
These reversals of voltage set up stronger and ever stronger oscillations in the plate circuit as before explained.
The oscillations are varied by means of the telegraph key which is placed in the grid circuit as shown in Fig 76.
The Operation of the Key Circuit. The effect in a C.
The way the motor generator changes the low into high voltage current has been explained in Chapter XVI.
The operation of key circuits of the latter kind will be described presently.
Hence this kind of a sending set is called a tone transmitter.
This is better than a direct current for it adds to the life of the filament.
This kind of a set is called a full wave rectification transmitter.
Telegraph Transmitter already explained in this chapter.
The only difference in the operation of these sets is the substitution of the microphone transmitter for the telegraph key.
By referring to the diagram at A in this figure you will readily understand how it operates.
As you speak into the microphone transmitter its resistance is varied and the current strength of the oscillations is varied accordingly.
The third device works on a different principle and this will be described a little farther along.
The Microphone Transformer. This is an induction coil that is designed especially for wireless telephone modulation.
The Magnetic Modulator. This piece of apparatus is also called a magnetic amplifier.
It is shown connected in the aerial wire system at A in Fig 88, and in Fig 93.
The second method is an efficient one, as the direct current is varied before it passes into the oscillator tube.
This is sufficient reason for describing only the second method.
For this reason a magnetic modulator is the cheapest in the long run.
The Operation of Rectifier Vacuum Tubes. The vacuum tube rectifier is simply a two electrode vacuum tube.
For this reason both a filter reactor and filter condensers are used to smooth out the pulsating direct currents.
In the chapters on Receptors you have been told how to build up high grade sets.
All you need for this set are 1 a crystal detector, 2 a tuning coil and 3 an earphone.
It is shown in Fig 96.
Now wind on 250 turns of No 40 Brown and Sharpe gauge plain enameled magnet wire.
Now buy a round wood base switch with 7 contact points on it as shown at B in Fig 97.
This will cost you 25 or 50 cents.
Then you must get a thin diaphragm and this should not be enameled, as this tends to dampen the vibrations of it.
You can get a diaphragm of the right kind for 5 cents.
The better way, though, is to buy an earphone made especially for wireless work.
You can get one wound to 1000 ohms resistance for 1.75 and this price includes a cord.
This done, screw the switch down to the base.
Finally screw the detector to the base and screw two binding posts in front of the coil.
These are for the earphone.
For a ground you can use a water pipe, an iron pipe driven into the ground, or a hydrant.
ABBREVIATIONS, CODE. Abbreviations of questions and answers used in wireless communication.
The abbreviation of a question is usually in three letters of which the first is Q.
ABBREVIATIONS, UNITS. Abbreviations of various units used in wireless electricity.
These abbreviations are usually lower case letters of the Roman alphabet, but occasionally Greek letters are used and other signs.
Thus amperes is abbreviated amp., micro, which means one millionth,, etc.
AERIAL. Also called antenna.
One or more wires suspended in the air and insulated from its supports.
It is the aerial that sends out the waves and receives them.
AERIAL, AMATEUR. An aerial suitable for sending out 200 meter wave lengths.
AERIAL, BED SPRINGS. Where an outdoor aerial is not practicable bed springs are often made to serve the purpose.
The counterpoise is made like the aerial and is supported directly under it close to the ground but insulated from it.
It is also called a ground antenna and an underground aerial.
AERIAL, LOOP. Also called a coil aerial, coil antenna, loop aerial, loop antenna and when used for the purpose a direction finder.
A coil of wire wound on a vertical frame.
AERIAL WIRE. 1 A wire or wires that form the aerial.
AERIAL WIRE SYSTEM. An aerial and ground wire and that part of the inductance coil which connects them.
The open oscillation circuit of a sending or a receiving station.
ALTERNATOR. An electric machine that generates alternating current.
ALPHABET, INTERNATIONAL CODE. A modified Morse alphabet of dots and dashes originally used in Continental Europe and, hence, called the Continental Code.
ALTERNATING CURRENT AC See Current.
AMMETER. An instrument used for measuring the current strength, in terms of amperes, that flows in a circuit.
Ammeters used for measuring direct and alternating currents make use of the magnetic effects of the currents.
High frequency currents make use of the heating effects of the currents.
Such an instrument is often called a thermal ammeter, radio ammeter and aerial ammeter.
This product of the current in amperes times the number of turns of wire on the coil is called the ampere turns.
AMPLIFICATION, AUDIO FREQUENCY. A current of audio frequency that is amplified by an amplifier tube or other means.
AMPLIFIER, AUDIO FREQUENCY. A vacuum tube or other device that amplifies the signals after passing through the detector.
AMPLIFIER, MAGNETIC. A device used for controlling radio frequency currents either by means of a telegraph key or a microphone transmitter.
AMPLIFIERS, MULTI STAGE. A receiving set using two or more amplifiers.
AMPLIFIER, VACUUM TUBE. A vacuum tube that is used either to amplify the radio frequency currents or the audio frequency currents.
AMPLITUDE OF WAVE. The greatest distance that a point moves from its position of rest.
ATMOSPHERICS. Same as Static, which see.
ATTENUATION. In Sending wireless telegraph and telephone messages the amplitude of the electric waves is damped out as the distance increases.
This is called attenuation and it increases as the frequency is increased.
This is the reason why short wave lengths will not carry as far as long wave lengths.
AUDION. An early trade name given to the vacuum tube detector.
BAKELITE. A manufactured insulating compound.
BATTERY, A. The 6 volt storage battery used to heat the filament of a vacuum tube, detector or amplifier.
BATTERY, B. The 22 1/2 volt dry cell battery used to energize the plate of a vacuum tube detector or amplifier.
BATTERY, BOOSTER. This is the battery that is connected in series with the crystal detector.
BATTERY, C. A small dry cell battery sometimes used to give the grid of a vacuum tube detector a bias potential.
BATTERY, EDISON STORAGE. A storage battery in which the elements are made of nickel and iron and immersed in an alkaline electrolyte.
BATTERY, LEAD STORAGE. A storage battery in which the elements are made of lead and immersed in an acid electrolyte.
BATTERY, PRIMARY. A battery that generates current by chemical action.
BATTERY, STORAGE. A battery that develops a current after it has been charged.
BLUB BLUB. Over modulation in wireless telephony.
CAPACITANCE. Also called by the older name of capacity.
The capacity of a condenser, inductance coil or other device capable of retaining a charge of electricity.
Capacitance is measured in terms of the microfarad.
CAPACITY, AERIAL. The amount to which an aerial wire system can be charged.
The capacitance of a small amateur aerial is from 0.0002 to 0.0005 microfarad.
CAPACITY, DISTRIBUTED. A coil of wire not only has inductance, but also a certain small capacitance.
In honeycomb and other stagger wound coils the capacitance is more evenly distributed.
CASCADE AMPLIFICATION. Two or more amplifying tubes hooked up in a receiving set.
CAT WHISKER CONTACT. A long, thin wire which makes contact with the crystal of a detector.
CENTIMETER OF CAPACITANCE. Equal to 1.11 microfarads.
CENTIMETER OF INDUCTANCE. Equal to one one thousandth part of a microhenry.
CHARACTERISTICS. The special behavior of a device, such as an aerial, a detector tube, etc.
CHOKE COILS. Coils that prevent the high voltage oscillations from surging back into the transformer and breaking down the insulation.
CIRCUIT. Any electrical conductor through which a current can flow.
A high frequency current will surge in a wire which is open at both ends like the aerial.
Closed Circuit. A circuit that is continuous.
Open Circuit. A conductor that is not continuous.
Coupled Circuits. Open and closed circuits connected together by inductance coils, condensers or resistances.
Close Coupled Circuits. Open and closed circuits connected directly together with a single inductance coil.
Loose Coupled Circuits. Opened and closed currents connected together inductively by means of a transformer.
Stand by Circuits. Also called pick up circuits.
Armstrong Circuits. The regenerative circuit invented by Major E.
Continental. Same as International.
International. On the continent of Europe land lines use the Continental Morse alphabetic code.
This code has come to be used throughout the world for wireless telegraphy and hence it is now called the International code.
It is given on Page 305.
Morse. The code devised by Samuel F.
Morse and which is used on the land lines in the U.
This code also covers the requirements for wireless installations.
A copy may be had from the National Board of Fire Underwriters, New York City, or from your insurance agent.
National Electric Safety. The Bureau of Standards, Washington, D.
C., have investigated the precautions which should be taken for the safe operation of all electric equipment.
A copy of the Bureau of Standards Handbook No 3 can be had for 40 cents from the Superintendent of Documents.
COIL, INDUCTION. An apparatus for changing low voltage direct currents into high voltage, low frequency alternating currents.
When fitted with a spark gap the high voltage, low frequency currents are converted into high voltage, high frequency currents.
It is then also called a spark coil and a Ruhmkorff coil.
COIL, LOADING. A coil connected in the aerial or closed oscillation circuit so that longer wave lengths can be received.
COIL, ROTATING. One which rotates on a shaft instead of sliding as in a loose coupler.
The rotor of a variometer or variocoupler is a rotating coil.
COILS, INDUCTANCE. These are the tuning coils used for sending and receiving sets.
CONDENSER, AERIAL SERIES. A condenser placed in the aerial wire system to cut down the wave length.
CONDENSER, VERNIER. A small variable condenser used for receiving continuous waves where very sharp tuning is desired.
Adjustable Condenser. Where two or more condensers can be coupled together by means of plugs, switches or other devices.
Aerial Condenser. A condenser connected in the aerial.
Air Condenser. Where air only separates the sheets of metal.
Fixed Condenser. Where the plates are fixed relatively to one another.
Grid Condenser. A condenser connected in series with the grid lead.
Leyden Jar Condenser. Where glass jars are used.
Mica Condenser. Where mica is used.
Oil Condenser. Where the plates are immersed in oil.
Paper Condenser. Where paper is used as the insulating material.
Variable Condenser. Where alternate plates can be moved and so made to interleave more or less with a set of fixed plates.
Vernier. A small condenser with a vernier on it so that it can be very accurately varied.
CONDENSITE. A manufactured insulating compound.
CONDUCTIVITY. The conductance of a given length of wire of uniform cross section.
The reciprocal of resistivity.
COULOMB. The quantity of electricity transferred by a current of 1 ampere in 1 second.
A duplicate of the aerial wire that is raised a few feet above the earth and insulated from it.
Usually no connection is made with the earth itself.
COUPLING, CAPACITIVE. Oscillation circuits when connected together by condensers instead of inductance coils.
COUPLING, COEFFICIENT OF. The measure of the closeness of the coupling between two coils.
COUPLING, INDUCTIVE. Oscillation circuits when connected together by inductance coils.
COUPLING, RESISTANCE. Oscillation circuits connected together by a resistance.
CRYSTAL RECTIFIER. A crystal detector.
CURRENT, ALTERNATING AC. A low frequency current that surges to and fro in a circuit.
CURRENT, AUDIO FREQUENCY. A current whose frequency is low enough to be heard in a telephone receiver.
Such a current usually has a frequency of between 200 and 2,000 cycles per second.
CURRENT, PLATE. The current which flows between the filament and the plate of a vacuum tube.
CURRENT, PULSATING. A direct current whose voltage varies from moment to moment.
CURRENT, RADIO FREQUENCY. A current whose frequency is so high it cannot be heard in a telephone receiver.
Such a current may have a frequency of from 20,000 to 10,000,000 per second.
CURRENTS, HIGH FREQUENCY. 1 Currents that oscillate from 10,000 to 300,000,000 times per second.
CURRENTS, HIGH POTENTIAL. 1 Currents that have a potential of more than 10,000 volts.
CYCLE. 1 A series of changes which when completed are again at the starting point.
DAMPING. The degree to which the energy of an electric oscillation is reduced.
DECREMENT. The act or process of gradually becoming less.
Carborundum. One that uses a carborundum crystal for the sensitive element.
Carborundum is a crystalline silicon carbide formed in the electric furnace.
A brass colored mineral used as a crystal for detectors.
Contact. A crystal detector.
Any kind of a detector in which two dissimilar but suitable solids make contact.
Ferron. A detector in which iron pyrites are used as the sensitive element.
Galena. A detector that uses a galena crystal for the rectifying element.
Iron Pyrites. A detector that uses a crystal of iron pyrites for its sensitive element.
Molybdenite. A detector that uses a crystal of sulphide of molybdenum for the sensitive element.
Perikon. A detector in which a bornite crystal makes contact with a zincite crystal.
Silicon. A detector that uses a crystal of silicon for its sensitive element.
Vacuum Tube. A vacuum tube which see used as a detector.
Zincite. A detector in which a crystal of zincite is used as the sensitive element.
DIELECTRIC. An insulating material between two electrically charged plates in which there is set up an electric strain, or displacement.
DIELECTRIC STRAIN. The electric displacement in a dielectric.
This is known as the duplex system.
EARTH CAPACITY. An aerial counterpoise.
EARTH CONNECTION. Metal plates or wires buried in the ground or immersed in water.
Any kind of means by which the sending and receiving apparatus can be connected with the earth.
ELECTRIC ENERGY. The power of an electric current.
ELECTRICITY, NEGATIVE. The opposite of positive electricity.
Negative electricity is formed of negative electrons which make up the outside particles of an atom.
ELECTRICITY, POSITIVE. The opposite of negative electricity.
Positive electricity is formed of positive electrons which make up the inside particles of an atom.
ELECTRODES. Usually the parts of an apparatus which dip into a liquid and carry a current.
The electrodes of a dry battery are the zinc and carbon elements.
ELECTROLYTES. The acid or alkaline solutions used in batteries.
ELECTROMOTIVE FORCE. Abbreviated emf.
The force that drives an electric current along a conductor.
Also loosely called voltage.
ELECTROMOTIVE FORCE, COUNTER. The emf.
ELECTRON. 1 A negative particle of electricity that is detached from an atom.
ELECTRON FLOW. The passage of electrons between the incandescent filament and the cold positively charged plate of a vacuum tube.
ELECTRON TUBE. A vacuum tube or a gas content tube used for any purpose in wireless work.
ELECTROSE INSULATORS. Insulators made of a composition material the trade name of which is Electrose.
ENERGY UNIT. The joule, which see, Page 308.
FEED BACK ACTION. Feeding back the oscillating currents in a vacuum tube to amplify its power.
FILAMENT. The wire in a vacuum tube that is heated to incandescence and which throws off electrons.
FLEMING VALVE. A two electrode vacuum tube.
Carrier. A radio frequency wave modulated by an audio frequency wave which results in setting of three radio frequency waves.
The principal radio frequency is called the carrier frequency, since it carries or transmits the audio frequency wave.
Commercial. 1 Alternating current that is used for commercial purposes, namely, light, heat and power.
Likewise an oscillation circuit has a natural frequency which depends upon its inductance, capacitance and resistance.
Spark. The number of sparks per second produced by the discharge of a condenser.
GAP, FIXED. One with fixed electrodes.
GAP, QUENCHED. 1 A spark gap for the impulse production of oscillating currents.
GAP, ROTARY. One having fixed and rotating electrodes.
GAP, SYNCHRONOUS. A rotary spark gap run at the same speed as the alternator which supplies the power transformer.
Such a gap usually has as many teeth as there are poles on the generator.
Hence one spark occurs per half cycle.
GENERATOR TUBE. A vacuum tube used to set up oscillations.
These characteristics are generally shown by curves.
GRID LEAK. A high resistance unit connected in the grid lead of both sending and receiving sets.
In a receiving set it controls the current flowing between the plate and filament.
GRID POTENTIAL. The negative or positive voltage of the grid of a vacuum tube.
GRINDERS. The most common form of Static, which see.
They make a grinding noise in the headphones.
GROUND, AMATEUR. A water pipe ground.
GROUND, WATERPIPE. A common method of grounding by amateurs is to use the waterpipe, gaspipe or radiator.
HARD TUBE. A vacuum tube in which the vacuum is high, that is, exhausted to a high degree.
HELIX. 1 Any coil of wire.
HETERODYNE RECEPTION. 1 Receiving by the beat method.
HORSE POWER. Used in rating steam machinery.
It is equal to 746 watts.
INDUCTION, MUTUAL. Induction produced between two circuits or coils close to each other by the mutual interaction of their magnetic fields.
INSULATION. Materials used on and around wires and other conductors to keep the current from leaking away.
It is the untoward interference between electric waves from different stations that makes selective signaling so difficult a problem.
JAMMING. Waves that are of such length and strength that when they interfere with incoming waves they drown them out.
JOULE. The energy spent in 1 second by a flow of 1 ampere in 1 ohm.
JOULES LAW. The relation between the heat produced in seconds to the resistance of the circuit, to the current flowing in it.
KENOTRON. The trade name of a vacuum tube rectifier made by the Radio Corporation of America.
LITZENDRAHT. A conductor formed of a number of fine copper wires either twisted or braided together.
It is used to reduce the skin effect.
MEGOHM. One million ohms.
METER, AUDIBILITY. An instrument for measuring the loudness of a signal by comparison with another signal.
It consists of a pair of headphones and a variable resistance which have been calibrated.
MHO. The unit of conductance.
As conductance is the reciprocal of resistance it is measured by the reciprocal ohm or mho.
MICA. A transparent mineral having a high insulating value and which can be split into very thin sheets.
It is largely used in making condensers both for transmitting and receiving sets.
MICROFARAD. The millionth part of a farad.
MICROHENRY. The millionth part of a farad.
MICROMICROFARAD. The millionth part of a microfarad.
MICROHM. The millionth part of an ohm.
MILLI AMMETER. An ammeter that measures a current by the one thousandth of an ampere.
MODULATION. 1 Inflection or varying the voice.
MILLIHENRY. The thousandth part of a henry.
MODULATION, PLATE. Modulating the oscillations set up by a vacuum tube by varying the current impressed on the plate.
MODULATOR TUBE. A vacuum tube used as a modulator.
MOTION, WAVE. 1 The to and fro motion of water at sea.
MUSH. Irregular intermediate frequencies set up by arc transmitters which interfere with the fundamental wave lengths.
OSCILLATIONS, ELECTRIC. A current of high frequency that surges through an open or a closed circuit.
Sustained. Oscillations in which the damping factor is small.
Damped. Oscillations in which the damping factor is large.
OSCILLATOR TUBE. A vacuum tube which is used to produce electric oscillations.
PANCAKE OSCILLATION TRANSFORMER. Disk shaped coils that are used for receiving tuning inductances.
PERMEABILITY, MAGNETIC. The degree to which a substance can be magnetized.
Iron has a greater magnetic permeability than air.
PHASE. A characteristic aspect or appearance that takes place at the same point or part of a cycle.
POLES, BATTERY. The positive and negative terminals of the elements of a battery.
On a storage battery these poles are marked and respectively.
POLES, MAGNETIC. The ends of a magnet.
POTENTIAL DIFFERENCE. The electric pressure between two charged conductors or surfaces.
POTENTIOMETER. A variable resistance used for subdividing the voltage of a current.
RADIATION. The emission, or throwing off, of electric waves by an aerial wire system.
RADIOTRON. The trade name of vacuum tube detectors, amplifiers, oscillators and modulators made by the Radio Corporation of America.
REACTANCE, CAPACITY. The capacity reactance is the opposition offered to a current by a capacity.
It is measured as a resistance, that is, in ohms.
RECEIVER, WATCH CASE. A compact telephone receiver used for wireless reception.
REACTANCE, INDUCTIVE. The inductive reactance is the opposition offered to the current by an inductance coil.
REACTOR, FILTER. A reactance coil for smoothing out the pulsating direct currents as they come from the rectifier.
RECEIVER. 1 A telephone receiver.
RECTIFIER. 1 An apparatus for changing alternating current into pulsating direct current.
RECEPTOR. A receiving set.
RECEPTOR, BEAT. A heterodyne receptor.
RECEPTOR, HETERODYNE. A receiving set that uses a separate vacuum tube to set up the second series of waves for beat reception.
RELAY, ELECTRON. A vacuum tube when used as a detector or an amplifier.
REPEATING COIL. A transformer used in connecting up a wireless receiver with a wire transmitter.
RESISTANCE. The opposition offered by a wire or other conductor to the passage of a current.
RESISTANCE, AERIAL. The resistance of the aerial wire to oscillating currents.
This is greater than its ordinary ohmic resistance due to the skin effect.
RESISTIVITY. The resistance of a given length of wire of uniform cross section.
The reciprocal of conductivity.
RESISTOR. A fixed or variable resistance unit or a group of such units.
Variable resistors are also called resistance boxes and more often rheostats.
RESONANCE. 1 Simple resonance of sound is its increase set up by one body by the sympathetic vibration of a second body.
RHEOSTAT. A variable resistance unit.
RHEOSTAT, CARBON. A carbon rod, or carbon plates or blocks, when used as variable resistances.
ROTOR. The rotating coil of a variometer or a variocoupler.
SATURATION. The maximum plate current that a vacuum tube will take.
SENSITIVE SPOTS. Spots on detector crystals that are sensitive to the action of electric oscillations.
SIGNALS, CONVENTIONAL. 1 The International Morse alphabet and numeral code, punctuation marks, and a few important abbreviations used in wireless telegraphy.
Now used for all general public service wireless communication.
SOFT TUBE. A vacuum tube in which the vacuum is low, that is, it is not highly exhausted.
Plain. A spark gap with fixed electrodes.
Rotary. A spark gap with a pair of fixed electrodes and a number of electrodes mounted on a rotating element.
Quenched. A spark gap formed of a number of metal plates placed closely together and insulated from each other.
SPREADER. A stick of wood, or spar, that holds the wires of the aerial apart.
STATIC. Also called atmospherics, grinders, strays, Xs, and, when bad enough, by other names.
It is an electrical disturbance in the atmosphere which makes noises in the telephone receiver.
STATOR. The fixed or stationary coil of a variometer or a variocoupler.
STRAY ELIMINATION. A method for increasing the strength of the signals as against the strength of the strays.
SWITCH, LIGHTNING. The switch that connects the aerial with the outside ground when the apparatus is not in use.
SYMBOLS, APPARATUS. Also called conventional symbols.
They are easy to make and easy to read.
The device usually consists of a fine steel or gold wire slipping in the smooth groove of a rotating brass wheel.
TRANSFORMER. A primary and a secondary coil for stepping up or down a primary alternating or oscillating current.
Air Cooled. A transformer in which the coils are exposed to the air.
Hence the core consists of the air inside of the coils.
Audio Amplifying. This is a transformer with an iron core and is used for frequencies up to say 3,000.
Closed Core. A transformer in which the path of the magnetic flux is entirely through iron.
Power transformers have closed cores.
Microphone. A small transformer for modulating the oscillations set up by an arc or a vacuum tube oscillator.
Oil Cooled. A transformer in which the coils are immersed in oil.
Open Core. A transformer in which the path of the magnetic flux is partly through iron and partly through air.
Induction coils have open cores.
Oscillation. A coil or coils for transforming or stepping down or up oscillating currents.
Oscillation transformers usually have no iron cores when they are also called air core transformers.
Radio Amplifying. This is a transformer with an air core.
It does not in itself amplify but is so called because it is used in connection with an amplifying tube.
TRANSMITTER, MICROPHONE. A telephone transmitter of the kind that is used in the Bell telephone system.
Likewise, when the sending and receiving stations are adjusted to the same wave length they are said to be tuned.
The smaller the decrement the sharper the tuning.
Amplifying Modulator. A vacuum tube used for modulating and amplifying the oscillations set up by the sending set.
Rectifier. 1 A vacuum tube detector.
Three Electrode. A vacuum tube with three electrodes, namely a filament, a grid and a plate.
Two Electrode. A vacuum tube with two electrodes, namely the filament and the plate.
VARIOCOUPLER. A tuning device for varying the inductance of the receiving oscillation circuits.
It consists of a fixed and a rotatable coil whose windings are not connected with each other.
VARIOMETER. A tuning device for varying the inductance of the receiving oscillation currents.
It consists of a fixed and a rotatable coil with the coils connected in series.
VOLTAGE, PLATE. The voltage of the current that is used to energize the plate of a vacuum tube.
VOLTMETER. An instrument for measuring the voltage of an electric current.
WATT. The power spent by a current of 1 ampere in a resistance of 1 ohm.
WAVE LENGTH. Every wave of whatever kind has a length.
The wave length is usually taken to mean the distance between the crests of two successive waves.
WAVE METER. An apparatus for measuring the lengths of electric waves set up in the oscillation circuits of sending and receiving sets.
WAVES, ELECTRIC. Electromagnetic waves set up in and transmitted by and through the ether.
Abbreviated CW Waves that are emitted without a break from the aerial.
Discontinuous. Waves that are emitted periodically from the aerial.
Intermediate. Waves from 600 to 2,000 meters in length.
Long. Waves over 2,000 meters in length.
Radio. Electric waves used in wireless telegraphy and telephony.
Short. Waves up to 600 meters in length.
Wireless. Electric waves used in wireless telegraphy and telephony.
WIRE, ENAMELLED. Wire that is given a thin coat of enamel which insulates it.
WIRE, PHOSPHOR BRONZE. A very strong wire made of an alloy of copper and containing a trace of phosphorus.
WIRED WIRELESS. Continuous waves of high frequency that are sent over telephone wires instead of through space.
Dont use iron wire for your aerial.
Dont fail to insulate it well at both ends.
Dont have it longer than 75 feet for sending out a 200 meter wave.
Dont fail to use a lightning arrester, or better, a lightning switch, for your receiving set.
Dont fail to use a lightning switch with your transmitting set.
Dont forget you must have an outside ground.
Dont fail to have the resistance of your aerial as small as possible.
Dont fail to solder the leading in wire to the aerial.
Dont fail to properly insulate the leading in wire where it goes through the window or wall.
Dont let your aerial or leading in wire touch trees or other objects.
Dont let your aerial come too close to overhead wires of any kind.
Dont run your aerial directly under, or over, or parallel with electric light or other wires.
Dont fail to make a good ground connection with the water pipe inside.
Dont attempt to send until you get your license.
Dont fail to live up to every rule and regulation.
Dont use an input of more than 1/2 a kilowatt if you live within 5 nautical miles of a naval station.
Dont send on more than a 200 meter wave if you have a restricted or general amateur license.
Dont use spark gap electrodes that are too small or they will get hot.
Dont use too long or too short a spark gap.
The right length can be found by trying it out.
Dont buy a motor generator set if you have commercial alternating current in your home.
Dont overload an oscillation vacuum tube as it will greatly shorten its life.
Use two in parallel.
Dont operate a transmitting set without a hot wire ammeter in the aerial.
Dont use solid wire for connecting up the parts of transmitters.
Use stranded or braided wire.
Dont fail to solder each connection.
Dont use soldering fluid, use rosin.
Dont think that all of the energy of an oscillation tube cannot be used for wave lengths of 200 meters and under.
It can be if the transmitting set and aerial are properly designed.
Dont run the wires of oscillation circuits too close together.
Dont cross the wires of oscillation circuits except at right angles.
Dont set the transformer of a transmitting set nearer than 3 feet to the condenser and tuning coil.
Dont use a rotary gap in which the wheel runs out of true.
Dont expect to get as good results with a crystal detector as with a vacuum tube detector.
Dont be discouraged if you fail to hit the sensitive spot of a crystal detector the first time or several times thereafter.
Dont use a wire larger than No 80 for the wire electrode of a crystal detector.
Dont try to use a loud speaker with a crystal detector receiving set.
Dont expect a loop aerial to give worthwhile results with a crystal detector.
Dont handle crystals with your fingers as this destroys their sensitivity.
Use tweezers or a cloth.
Dont imbed the crystal in solder as the heat destroys its sensitivity.
Use Woods metal, or some other alloy which melts at or near the temperature of boiling water.
Dont forget that strong static and strong signals sometimes destroy the sensitivity of crystals.
Dont heat the filament of a vacuum tube to greater brilliancy than is necessary to secure the sensitiveness required.
Dont use a plate voltage that is less or more than it is rated for.
Dont connect the filament to a lighting circuit.
Dont use dry cells for heating the filament except in a pinch.
Dont use a constant current to heat the filament, use a constant voltage.
Dont use a vacuum tube in a horizontal position unless it is made to be so used.
Dont fail to properly insulate the grid and plate leads.
Dont fail to use alternating current for heating the filament where this is possible.
Dont fail to use a voltmeter to find the proper temperature of the filament.
Dont expect to get results with a loud speaker when using a single vacuum tube.
Dont fail to protect your vacuum tubes from mechanical shocks and vibration.
Dont fail to cut off the A battery entirely from the filament when you are through receiving.
Dont switch on the A battery current all at once through the filament when you start to receive.
Dont expect to get the best results with a gas content detector tube without using a potentiometer.
Dont connect a potentiometer across the B battery or it will speedily run down.
Dont expect to get as good results with a single coil tuner as you would with a loose coupler.
Dont expect to get as good results with a two coil tuner as with one having a third, or tickler, coil.
Dont think you are the only amateur who is troubled with static.
Dont expect to eliminate interference if the amateurs around you are sending with spark sets.
Dont lay out or assemble your set on a panel first.
Connect it up on a board and find out if everything is right.
Dont try to connect up your set without a wiring diagram in front of you.
Dont fail to shield radio frequency amplifiers.
Dont set the axes of the cores of radio frequency transformers in a line.
Set them at right angles to each other.
Dont use wire smaller than No 14 for connecting up the various parts.
Dont fail to adjust the B battery after putting in a fresh vacuum tube, as its sensitivity depends largely on the voltage.
Dont fail to properly space the parts where you use variometers.
Dont fail to put a copper shield between the variometer and the variocoupler.
Dont fail to keep the leads to the vacuum tube as short as possible.
Dont throw your receiving set out of the window if it howls.
Try placing the audio frequency transformers farther apart and the cores of them at right angles to each other.
Dont use condensers with paper dielectrics for an amplifier receiving set or it will be noisy.
Dont try to assemble a set if you dont know the difference between a binding post and a blue print.
Buy a set ready to use.
Dont expect to get Arlington time signals and the big cableless stations if your receiver is made for short wave lengths.
Dont take your headphones apart.
You are just as apt to spoil them as you would a watch.
Dont expect to get results with a Bell telephone receiver.
Dont forget that there are other operators using the ether besides yourself.
Dont let your B battery get damp and dont let it freeze.
Dont try to recharge your B battery unless it is constructed for the purpose.
Dont connect a source of alternating current direct to your storage battery.
You have to use a rectifier.
Dont connect the positive lead of the charging circuit with the negative terminal of your storage battery.
Dont let the electrolyte get lower than the tops of the plates of your storage battery.
Dont fail to look after the condition of your storage battery once in a while.
Dont buy a storage battery that gives less than 6 volts for heating the filament.
Dont fail to keep the specific gravity of the electrolyte of your storage battery between 1.225 and 1.300 Baume.
This you can do with a hydrometer.
Dont fail to recharge your storage battery when the hydrometer shows that the specific gravity of the electrolyte is close to 1.225.
Dont keep charging the battery after the hydrometer shows that the specific gravity is 1.285.
Dont let the storage battery freeze.
Dont let it stand for longer than a month without using unless you charge it.
Dont monkey with the storage battery except to add a little sulphuric acid to the electrolyte from time to time.
If anything goes wrong with it better take it to a service station and let the expert do it.
Dont try to operate your spark coil with 110 volt direct lighting current without connecting in a rheostat.
Dont try to operate your spark coil with 110 volt alternating lighting current without connecting in an electrolytic interrupter.
Dont try to operate an alternating current power transformer with 110 volt direct current without connecting in an electrolytic interruptor.
The Government wont have it thats all.
Dont try to tune your transmitter to send out waves of given length by guesswork.
Dont use hard fiber for panels.
It is a very poor insulator where high frequency currents are used.
Dont think you are the only one who doesnt know all about wireless.
Wireless is a very complex art and there are many things that those experienced have still to learn.
